_Code Book_ (23 Aug 2022)

The code provided in the run_analysis.R script covers all the steps from downloading the data until writing a tidy table. The data was selected, organized, and presented following the requirements of the Getting and Cleaning Data Peer Reviews Assignment.


*The dataset*
  The dataset downloaded was a zip file containing the folder UCI HAR Dataset


*Assign each data to variables*
  features <- features.txt : 561 rows, 2 columns. Data collected by the accelerometer and gyroscope.

activities <- activity_labels.txt : 6 rows, 2 columns. Activities (with respective codes) performed for measurements

subject_test <- test/subject_test.txt : 2947 rows, 1 column. Testing data of 9/30 volunteers

x_test <- test/X_test.txt : 2947 rows, 561 columns. Recorded data from sensor

y_test <- test/y_test.txt : 2947 rows, 1 columns. Activities codes

subject_train <- test/subject_train.txt : 7352 rows, 1 column. Training data of 21/30 volunteers

x_train <- test/X_train.txt : 7352 rows, 561 columns. Recorded data from sensors

y_train <- test/y_train.txt : 7352 rows, 1 columns. Activities codes


*Merges the training and the test sets*
  
  X (10299 rows, 561 columns): x_train and x_test are merged with rbind()

Y (10299 rows, 1 column): y_train and y_test are merged with rbind()

subject (10299 rows, 1 column): subject_train and subject_test are merged with rbind()

XY (10299 rows, 563 column) Y and X are merged with cbind()


*Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement*
  
  mean_sd (10299 rows, 88 columns) is generated by selecting the columns subject, code, and the measurements containing "mean" and "standard deviation"

*Appying descriptive activity names*
  
  Codes in mean_sd were replaced with corresponding each corresponding activity name

*Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names*
  
  code column in mean_sd renamed with activities
Acc replaced with Accelerometer
Gyro replaced with Gyroscope
BodyBody replaced with Body
Mag replaced with Magnitude
Column's name starting with "f" replaced with Frequency
  Column’s name starting with "t" replaced with Time

*Generate an independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject*

TidyWearable (180 rows, 88 columns) is created from mean_sd, which was groups by subject and activity so that the mean of each activity could be calculated.

TidyWearable was exported as a table called TidyWearable in text (.txt) format.